#Assignment:
Write a short paper that addresses either (or both) of the following ideas, in any manner you choose:
1. Reflect on what's been easy and what's been hard about learning how to code this semester.  What particular traits or skills are important for software development?  How are these skills similar to, or different from, what's required in your law studies?
2. Has this course affected your understanding of the intersections of law and technology?  What do you think will be the important questions or areas of law that you think will be most affected in the near future (say, within the next 10 years)?
Or, make up your own questions! That would be even better :-)
I'm not looking for any particular length.  I will award up to 10 points at my sole discretion, based on how well your writing demonstrates your growth in understanding this semester.

#Introduction

In many ways, coding is a similar way of thinking as that taught in law school, albeit with drastically different subject matter. In law school, we read a bunch of old cases and then try to formulate a generalized rule using deductive reasoning. Then, we apply this rule to the case at hand, attempting to persuade a judge why s/he should decide a case in our favor.

Broadly, I think I’ve learned coding the best by applying a similar technique: reading the code of others or perusing StackOverflow for code, and then figuring out how that code works so that it can be applied to my project. Now, what makes coding infinitely more difficult is that it’s black and white: either your code works or it does not – either you figure out the way the code works, or you don’t. In legal arguments, the judge decides if you’re right. Lawyers live in the grey area, massaging facts or laws to try to direct the judge towards an outcome favorable to their client. For coders though, there is no grey space. Sure, it seems that there are many best practices, but that arguing tabs and spaces is different than arguing the definition of “cruel and unusual punishment” under the Eighth Amendment.

##Four Forces
One of the more interesting ideas I’ve come across is the notion that computer code regulates conduct much the same way legal conduct does (first argued by Lawrence Lessing in the late 90s). He went so far as to say that humans are “regulated” or impacted by four things: law, technological architecture, markets, and norms. It’s interesting to compare the first two in terms of what we’ve learned in this class as compared to our other law school classes. Laws and regulations simply create a system of incentives designed to influence how people act and interact with each other. Likewise, technology comes with its own set of incentives. On the minds of technologists and regulators recently is the incentives underlying not only our interaction with others on social media, but the very business models and structures underlying these systems. Advertising, data collection and surveillance, etc. They’ve all come to a head recently and are making people reevaluate the free-wheeling nature of these systems, bringing technology and the law into conflict once again.

Interestingly, another of Lessig’s four pillars of regulation was markets, broadly thought of as the buying, selling and trading of goods and services. I recently read a book review for a forthcoming [book](https://www.amazon.com/Efficiency-Paradox-What-Data-Cant/dp/1400041392/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1523197585&sr=8-1&keywords=edward+tenner&dpID=410-sIaaQaL&preST=_SY291_BO1,204,203,200_QL40_&dpSrc=srch/marginalrevol-20) that compares the rise of “Big Tech” to the rise of finance in the last century. At their core, both are aimed at achieving efficiency. In fact, many tech innovations are actually transactional innovations, easing the ability for consumers to transact with businesses or each other. The book also points out how modern finance is now defined by portfolio theory, and social network (and other) tech has promulgated the idea of “life as a portfolio”: more, shorter interactions with more people.

##Takeaways
As a future lawyer and worker of the 21st century, the most valuable thing I've learned is what computers do well. They're great at taking instructions, executing repeatable processes, and taking the emotion out of a decision.

On the other hand, humans – at their best, at least – are capable of vast creativity, at identifying patterns, and at understanding emotions. Luckily for the future of humanity, the skill sets of humans and robots seem to complement each other pretty well. Of course, it seems like we see another article every week about how artificial intelligence was trained to identify a new pattern in finance, medicine, etc. and can solve a new set of problems now. But, these systems are still pretty narrow and must be trained on copious amounts of data. In the short term, humans still have a distinct set of skills that computers don't really have.

My point is, this class has helped me better understand what computers do well and what they don't do well. As a corollary, **this class has helped me understand, what I need to do to differentiate myself as a lawyer that adds value beyond what a dumb machine can do.** Legal technology is still a growing field, and as computer processes continue to be applied to the legal industry, it will be important to (1) understand how to use those processes, and (2) understand how I can differentiate myself, so that my job doesn't become obsolete. While I don't think *good* attorneys are going to be displaced anytime soon, the bad ones might be.

Working in the legal Clinic at school this semester, I always see myself thinking about how technology might be used to make our processes more efficient or make the client experience better. In the Clinic, so much of what we do is fairly routine from client to client, it seems like a web app could automate some processes: from client intake to filing out forms, having a human handle many of these things just opens it up for errors.

But, there will continue to be road blocks to technology being used in law. LegalZoom and the North Carolina State Bar Association recently settled a lawsuit after the bar association had accused the online purveyor of legal services of unauthorized practice of law. Lawyers, law firms and regulators will need to become more open to using technology to provide legal services if they truly want to provide better legal services to more clients. There's no shortage of people who need legal services – on any given day, tons of individuals are representing themselves pro se in the Daly Center – but the current system simply doesn't have a way of providing services to them.

This unmet need is the great hope that technology can address.
